Let's walk through how to use Tableau to analyze user segment performance in a funnel.
In Tableau you can see I've already completed step 1 of
segment analysis of a funnel by creating the overall user funnel.
For this funnel, a user begins by landing at
the homepage and completes the funnel when the purchase is made.
Right now, the funnel shows the total number of users who completed each step.
Now for step 2, I need to know which segments I want to analyze.
For this example, let's look at the segment of devices.
By adding the dimension of devices to the funnel analysis,
we can see the device segment is divided into
groups of users on mobile and desktop computers.
Step 3 and segment analysis of a funnel is to calculate drop-off between step,
we can use a table calculation of percent change or
percent difference to calculate
the drop-off rate between each step for each segment group.
If I go Quick Table Calculation and do Percent Difference and then adjust it,
so that it's going down my table.
Great, now that we've generated these figures,
it is time for step 4.
Look for under or over performance,
Converting between steps on the funnel.
Looking at the data,
we can see that mobile users have
almost a 10 percent lower drop-off rate between the search and payment pages.
They also have about a five percent lower drop-off rate,
between the payment and payment confirmation pages.
These may indicate areas for desktop optimization.
Based on these findings,
we should talk to users and I'll review
the desktop design to determine what may be causing the higher drop-off rates.
This will help us to find ways to improve the user experience,
and possibly increase desktop segment purchases.